Designing databases and ensuring their stability, reliability, and performance

Develop, Implement and optimize Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views, Joins, database objects.

Strong knowledge of database design principles, normalization, and indexing

Experience with database performance tuning and optimization techniques.

Acting as a key contributor throughout the software development lifecycle.

Designing, programming and enhancements to platform software as defined under the scrum process guidance

Trouble shooting Sql Server problems, Error handling.

Handling of Large data tables and joins

Experience with query optimization techniques, including query analysis, indexing, and performance tuning.

Database Analysis and Optimization

Query Optimization

Reporting System Development

Performance Monitoring and Maintenance

Working with client/business analysts to define data requirements for enterprise analytical reporting needs.

Designing and developing the automated routines (scripts etc.) to facilitate the application development and deployment process

Maintaining DB schema and code change management

Maintaining the product application data which is critical in product lifecycle 
 and efficiently implementing the data migration in each release.
 
Involving in database design, application development of health benefits functionality 
 and developed mission-critical benefits eligibility exception report.
 
Developing SQL routines for complex, enterprise-level application development tasks involving hierarchical tree structures.

Data to measure quality and integrity, provide solutions to improve quality

Served as the initial contact person for all SQL support queries.   

Performed 60% of updates to the SQL system as assigned by management.   
 
Improved the experience of over 50,000 software users by soliciting feedback and making software improvements. 
  
Supported code activations and updated business tool applications per company requirements.   

Delivered database deployment through the whole system lifecycle.   

Drive stability, reliability, and performance by optimizing in-application SQL statements and design user-focused databases

Develop and optimize SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to implement new features and improve system performance.

Document database schemas, data dictionaries, and SQL codebase for reference and future maintenance.

Provide technical support and troubleshooting assistance to resolve database-related issues and performance bottlenecks.

Analyze project information requirements, data relationships, and attributes, and determine data flows,
 program structures, hardware needs, and outputs for projects.

Extensive knowledge and hands on experience designing and developing objects and components of relational 
